Cross-site scripting (XSS) is a web security vulnerability that allows an attacker to inject malicious scripts into a web page viewed by other users. As a result, the unsuspecting users end up running the unauthorized script in their browsers, although the website they are visiting is trusted to be benign. Therefore, XSS can be a severe threat because it exploits users’ trust in a site.

What Makes XSS Possible
There are many reasons why XSS vulnerabilities are still found in web apps. Below, we list a few of them.

Insufficient input validation and sanitization
Web applications accept user data, e.g., via forms, and use this data in the dynamic generation of HTML pages. Consequently, malicious scripts can be embedded as part of the legitimate input and will eventually be executed by the browser unless adequately sanitized.

Lack of output encoding
The user can use various characters to alter how a web browser processes and displays a web page. For the HTML part, it is critical to properly encode characters such as <, >, ", ', and & into their respective HTML encoding. For JavaScript, special attention should be given to escape ', ", and \. Failing to encode user-supplied data correctly is a leading cause of XSS vulnerabilities.

Improper use of security headers
Various security headers can help mitigate XSS vulnerabilities. For example, Content Security Policy (CSP) mitigates XSS risks by defining which sources are trusted for executable scripts. A misconfigured CSP, such as overly permissive policies or the improper use of unsafe-inline or unsafe-eval directives, can make it easier for the attacker to execute their XSS payloads.

Framework and language vulnerabilities
Some older web frameworks did not provide security mechanisms against XSS; others have unpatched XSS vulnerabilities. Modern web frameworks automatically escape XSS by design and promptly patch any discovered vulnerability.

Third-party libraries
Integrating third-party libraries in a web application can introduce XSS vulnerabilities; even if the core web application is not vulnerable.

Implications of XSS

Session hijacking
As XSS can be used to steal session cookies, attackers can take over the session and impersonate the victim if successful.

Phishing and credential theft
Leveraging XSS, attackers can present a fake login prompt to the user. In one recent case, the browser’s page was partially hidden by a dialogue box requesting users to connect to their cryptocurrency wallet.

Social engineering
Using XSS, an attacker can create a legitimate-looking pop-up or alert within a trusted website. This can trick users into clicking malicious links or visiting malicious websites.

Content manipulation and defacement
In addition to phishing and social engineering, an attacker might use XSS to change the website for other purposes, such as inflicting damage on the company’s reputation.

Data exfiltration
XSS can access and exfiltrate any information displayed on the user’s browser. This includes sensitive information such as personal data and financial information.

Malware installation
A sophisticated attacker can use XSS to spread malware. In particular, it can deliver drive-by download attacks on the vulnerable website.


