Persisting through AD group templates.

While we could just an account to every privileged group that we can find,
that's probably not the best ways of staying stealthy within the network.

In order to ensure our persistence is a bit better, and to make the blue
team scratch their heads a bit, we want to use things like group templates
to ensure that they cannot find us as easy.

One such template which would be good to use is the AdminSDHolder container.
This container exists in every AD domain, and its Access Control List 
is used as a template to copy permissions to all protected groups.

Protected groups are simply privileged groups such as Domain Admins, 
Administrators, Enterprise Admins and Schema Admins. A full list of groups
is available here:
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/technet-magazine/ee361593(v=msdn.10)

A process named SDProp takes the ACL (Access control list) of the AdminSDHolder
container and applies it to protected groups every 60 minutes. 

We can thus write an ACE that will grant us full permissions on all
protected groups.

In order to deploy our persistence onto AdminSDHolder, we need to 
first use runas to inject administrator credentials into memory:
runas /netonly /user:thmchilddc.tryhackme.loc\Administrator cmd.exe

And then execute MMC from a new terminal.
mmc

Once you have an MMC window, add the Users and Groups Snap-in (File->Add Snap-In->Active Directory Users and Computers). Make sure to enable Advanced Features (View->Advanced Features). We can find the AdminSDHolder group under Domain->System

Navigate to the Security of the group (Right-click->Properties->Security):

Let's add our low-privileged user and grant Full Control:

Click Add.
Search for your low-privileged username and click Check Names.
Click OK.
Click Allow on Full Control.
Click Apply.
Click OK.

Now we just need to wait 60 minutes, and our user will have full control over all Protected Groups.

Once done, give it a minute and then review the security permissions of a Protected Group such as the Domain Admins group (you can use the search command to find this group):

ACL = Access Control List.


If you really want to persist, you can grant full control to the 
Domain Users group in the AdminSDHolder group, which means any 
low-privileged user would be granted full control over all Protected
Groups. Combining this with a full DC Sync means the blue team will 
have to reset every single credential in the domain to flush us out 
completely.

